Add vs-code blog post (#40)
model-checking/kani-verifier-blog: _posts/2023-06-23-run-and-debug-rust-verification-harnesses-natively-on-vscode.md

Reviewer: Date needs to change to 06/29.

## Using the VS Code extension

#### How to verify a harness using the Kani VS Code extension

With the extension, running Kani on a harness to verify it, is as simple as clicking a button. The following sections walk you through the first few actions you’ll need. We’ll walk you through using the extension’s core features to debug and finally verify the rectangle example mentioned above.

#### View Kani harnesses

As soon as your rust package is opened using the Kani extension in a VS Code instance, you should see the Kani proofs loaded as regular unit tests in the Testing Panel on the left border of VS Code. This is how the testing page looks like when you click on the panel.

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/view-kani-harnesses.png" alt="view-kani-harnesses" />

#### Run Kani harnesses

> You can then run your harnesses using the tree view by clicking the play button beside the harness that was automatically picked up by the Kani Extension. Once you run the harness using the extension, you are shown a failure banner if the verification has failed (or a green check-mark if it’s succeeded).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can then run your harnesses using the tree view by clicking the play button beside the harness that was automatically picked up by the Kani Extension. Once you run the harness using the extension, you are shown a failure banner if verification failed (or a green check mark if it succeeded).
```

> In our example, as with the command line, we can see through visual markers such as the failure banner pop-up and the red failure marker, that the verification has failed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In our example, as with the command line, we can see through visual markers such as the failure banner pop-up and the red failure marker, that verification failed.
```

You are then presented with two options:

1. [Generate the report for the harness](https://github.com/model-checking/kani-vscode-extension/blob/main/docs/user-guide.md#view-trace-report)
2. [Run concrete playback to generate unit tests](https://github.com/model-checking/kani-vscode-extension/blob/main/docs/user-guide.md#use-concrete-playback-to-debug-a-kani-harness).

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/run-kani-harness.gif" style="box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);" alt="run-kani-harness" />

> Kani can help you generate unit tests containing the counter-example (or values for which the assertion fails). Each unit test provides inputs that will either trigger a property failure or satisfy a cover statement. This feature called [concrete playback](https://model-checking.github.io/kani-verifier-blog/2022/09/22/internship-projects-2022-concrete-playback.html) allows you to generate unit tests that call a function with the exact arguments that caused the assertion violation, and the VSCode Extension makes using concrete playback easy. You can read more about concrete playback in our [documentation](https://model-checking.github.io/kani/debugging-verification-failures.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kani can help you generate unit tests containing the counter-example (or values for which the assertion fails). Each unit test provides inputs that will either trigger a property failure or satisfy a cover statement. This feature, called [concrete playback](https://model-checking.github.io/kani-verifier-blog/2022/09/22/internship-projects-2022-concrete-playback.html), allows you to generate unit tests that call a function with the exact arguments that caused the assertion violation, and the VSCode extension makes using concrete playback easy. You can read more about concrete playback in our [documentation](https://model-checking.github.io/kani/debugging-verification-failures.html).
```

#### Generate a counter-example unit test

Next, we’ll generate the unit test by clicking on the `Run Concrete Playback for stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original` link that appears through a blue link on the error banner.

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/generate-counter-example.gif" style="box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);" alt="generate-unit-test" />

By simply clicking on a link, we have our counter example unit test pasted directly below the harness. This is what the unit test looks like:

```rust
#[test]
fn kani_concrete_playback_stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original() {
    let concrete_vals: Vec<Vec<u8>> = vec![
        // 4611686018427387904ul
        vec![0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 64],
        // 0ul
        vec![0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
        // 2ul
        vec![2, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
    ];
    kani::concrete_playback_run(concrete_vals, stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original);
}
```

>  You can see in the gif above, that the source is now annotated with two options that hover over the unit test generated called  `Run Test (Kani) | Debug Test (Kani)` which allow you to run and debug the test just like any other rust unit test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 You can see in the gif above that the source is now annotated with two options on top of the generated unit test called  `Run Test (Kani) | Debug Test (Kani)` which allow you to run and debug the test just like any other Rust unit test.
```

#### Run Kani-generated test

> Running the unit test using the Run Test (Kani) button, shows us what we’re expecting–that the current unit test is failing. This is because the unit test is using the counter-examples to invoke the function `stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Running the unit test using the Run Test (Kani) button, shows us what we’re expecting–that the current unit test is failing. This is because the unit test is using the counter-example to invoke the function `stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original`.
```

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/run-concrete-playback-test.png" alt="run-concrete-playback-test" />

### Debug Kani unit test

> In order to peek under the hood to find out the faulty assumptions that lead to unexpected behavior, it is really important to look at the concrete counter examples for which our assertions fail. By setting breakpoints and clicking the debug test (Kani) button, you are taken into the debugger which allows you to look at the specific values for which the assertion fails.

Reviewer 2: There isn't really a faulty assumption. The harness is *missing* assumptions.

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/run-debugger.gif" style="box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);" alt="run-debugger" />

> In our case, we can see that for `original.height = 0` , the larger rectangle’s height or `larger.height` also stays 0, which shows that for that counter example, the property `can_hold`  does not hold.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In our case, we can see that for `original.height = 0` , the larger rectangle’s height or `larger.height` also stays 0, which shows that for that counter-example, the property `can_hold`  does not hold.
```

### And finally, verify the harness with the right assumptions

Now that we know that for `original.width = 0`, our assertion fails, we can repeat the experiment with explicit assumptions.  The experiments should reveal that for all parameters, having a 0 value will cause the assertion to fail. Additionally, there is a problem if `factor` is `1` because in this case stretch will return `Some(...)` but the stretched rectangle will be the same size as the original. We missed these cases in our unit and property-based tests.

> We will now add these assumptions through `Kani::assume` and re-run the verification in the extension.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will now add these assumptions through `kani::assume` and re-run the verification in the extension.
```

---
layout: post
title:  "Run and debug Rust verification harnesses natively on VS Code"
---

> Kani is a verification tool that can help you prove properties about your Rust code. To learn more about Kani, check out the [Kani tutorial](https://model-checking.github.io/kani/kani-tutorial.html) and our [previous blog posts](https://model-checking.github.io/kani-verifier-blog/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kani is a verification tool that can help you systematically test properties about your Rust code. To learn more about Kani, check out the [Kani tutorial](https://model-checking.github.io/kani/kani-tutorial.html) and our [previous blog posts](https://model-checking.github.io/kani-verifier-blog/).
```

Author: We have used the word in previous blog posts including the introduction blog post, so I thought we can continue that for continuity.

Author: Resolved offline

> In today’s blog post, we introduce the [Kani VS Code Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=model-checking.kani-vscode-extension), available on the VS Code marketplace. The extension automatically detects all harness within the project, and allows users to run and debug them directly in VS Code. To allow an easier verification experience, Kani is now usable directly from the VS Code user interface. Until now, developers could only run and debug harnesses via a command-line interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In today’s blog post, we introduce the [Kani VS Code Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=model-checking.kani-vscode-extension), available on the VS Code marketplace. The extension automatically detects all harnesses within the project, and allows users to run and debug them directly in VS Code. To allow an easier verification experience, Kani is now usable directly from the VS Code user interface. Until now, developers could only run and debug harnesses via a command-line interface.
```

Reviewer: Additional comment: "To allow an easier verification experience": Not sure if this needs a "for" after "allow". I'm also not convinced "easier" is the best adjective here. Maybe "more comfortable" or "smoother"?

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/kani-demo.gif" style="box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);" alt="view-kani-demo" />

## A Simple Example

To show some of the features in the extension, we will work through a familiar example, the rectangle example that we introduced in our [first blog post](https://model-checking.github.io/kani-verifier-blog/2022/05/04/announcing-the-kani-rust-verifier-project.html).

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Copy, Clone)]
struct Rectangle {
    width: u64,
    height: u64,
}

impl Rectangle {
    fn can_hold(&self, other: &Rectangle) -> bool {
        self.width > other.width && self.height > other.height
    }

    fn stretch(&self, factor: u64) -> Option<Self> {
        let w = self.width.checked_mul(factor)?;
        let h = self.height.checked_mul(factor)?;
        Some(Rectangle { width: w, height: h })
    }
}
```

> In order to prove properties about the rectangle, we wrote a proof harness. The proof harness tried to prove that when the rectangle is stretched, it can hold another rectangle of its original size (dimensions). If proven, this means that for any given stretch factor and any height and width of the original rectangle, this property holds true.

Reviewer: Shouldn't we refrain from using terms such as "proof" or "prove" throughout the post?

Author: We've used "proofs" and "prove" in previous blog posts, so I thought readers would be familiar with those words.

Reviewer: Discussed offline.

```rust
#[kani::proof]
pub fn stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original() {
    let original = Rectangle { width: kani::any(), height: kani::any() };
    let factor = kani::any();
    if let Some(larger) = original.stretch(factor) {
        assert!(larger.can_hold(&original));
    }
}
```

> #### How users use Kani currently

Reviewer: Do we really need a subsection here?

Author: I thought it would be more organized and clearer that way. I think we should keep it so readers can follow the post using the headings.

Reviewer: Can we at least rename it to "How Kani is used currently"? To avoid the close "users" and "use".

The current way of interacting with Kani is through the command line. Users invoke `cargo kani` and specify the harness they want to verify. Kani produces text-based output that tells you whether your proof has succeeded or failed.

```
$ cargo kani --harness stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original
# --snip--
Check 2: verification::stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original.assertion.1
         - Status: FAILURE
         - Description: "assertion failed: larger.can_hold(&original)"
         - Location: src/main.rs:36:13 in function verification::stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original
# --snip--
VERIFICATION:- FAILED
```

## Introducing the Kani VS Code Extension

> Kani VS Code extension offers a hassle-free and seamless integration into Visual Studio Code, making it more convenient to write and debug proofs. As you write proof harnesses using Kani, the extension detects them and conveniently displays them within your testing panel. The extension offers detailed diagnostics, feedback about proof failures, error messages, and stack traces. This empowers our users to find bugs and verify their code quicker. You can install the extension from the [webpage](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=model-checking.kani-vscode-extension) on VS Code marketplace or by searching for `Kani` in the extensions tab of your VS Code instance.

Reviewer: "The" at the beginning?

> Kani VS Code extension offers a hassle-free and seamless integration into Visual Studio Code, making it more convenient to write and debug proofs. As you write proof harnesses using Kani, the extension detects them and conveniently displays them within your testing panel. The extension offers detailed diagnostics, feedback about proof failures, error messages, and stack traces. This empowers our users to find bugs and verify their code quicker. You can install the extension from the [webpage](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=model-checking.kani-vscode-extension) on VS Code marketplace or by searching for `Kani` in the extensions tab of your VS Code instance.

Reviewer: And you don't "write proof harnesses using Kani", but just "write Kani harnesses".

Reviewer: "instance" -> "window"?

```
$ cargo kani --harness stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original
# --snip--
Check 2: verification::stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original.assertion.1
         - Status: FAILURE
         - Description: "assertion failed: larger.can_hold(&original)"
         - Location: src/main.rs:36:13 in function verification::stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original
# --snip--
VERIFICATION:- FAILED
```

## Introducing the Kani VS Code Extension

Kani VS Code extension offers a hassle-free and seamless integration into Visual Studio Code, making it more convenient to write and debug proofs.
As you write proof harnesses using Kani, the extension detects them and conveniently displays them within your testing panel.
The extension offers detailed diagnostics, feedback about proof failures, error messages, and stack traces.
This empowers our users to find bugs and verify their code quicker.
You can install the extension from the [webpage](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=model-checking.kani-vscode-extension) on VS Code marketplace or by searching for `Kani` in the extensions tab of your VS Code instance.

## Using the VS Code extension

> #### How to verify a harness using the Kani VS Code extension

Reviewer: Doesn't this section contain both "View Kani harnesses" and "Run Kani harnesses"?
```suggestion
### Verify Kani harnesses
```

With the extension, running Kani on a harness to verify it, is as simple as clicking a button.
The following sections walk you through the first few actions you’ll need.
We’ll walk you through using the extension’s core features to debug and finally verify the rectangle example mentioned above.

#### View Kani harnesses

> As soon as your rust package is opened using the Kani extension in a VS Code instance, you should see the Kani proofs loaded as regular unit tests in the Testing Panel on the [primary side bar](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/ux-guidelines/sidebars#primary-sidebar) of VS Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As soon as your Rust package is opened using the Kani extension in a VS Code instance, you should see the Kani proofs loaded as regular unit tests in the Testing Panel on the [primary side bar](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/ux-guidelines/sidebars#primary-sidebar) of VS Code.
```

This is how the testing page looks like when you click on the panel.

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/view-kani-harnesses.png" alt="view-kani-harnesses" />

#### Run Kani harnesses

> You can then run your harnesses using the tree view by clicking the play button beside the harness that was automatically picked up by the Kani Extension. Once you run the harness using the extension, you are shown a failure banner if verification failed (or a green check mark if it succeeded).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then run your harnesses using the tree view by clicking the play button beside the harness that was automatically picked up by the extension.
Once you run the harness using the extension, you are shown a failure banner if verification failed, or a green check mark if it succeeded.
```

You are then presented with two options:

1. [Generate the report for the harness](https://github.com/model-checking/kani-vscode-extension/blob/main/docs/user-guide.md#view-trace-report)
2. [Run concrete playback to generate unit tests](https://github.com/model-checking/kani-vscode-extension/blob/main/docs/user-guide.md#use-concrete-playback-to-debug-a-kani-harness).

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/run-kani-harness.gif" style="box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);" alt="run-kani-harness" />

Kani can help you generate unit tests containing the counter-example (or values for which the assertion fails).
Each unit test provides inputs that will either trigger a property failure or satisfy a cover statement.
This feature, called [concrete playback](https://model-checking.github.io/kani-verifier-blog/2022/09/22/internship-projects-2022-concrete-playback.html), allows you to generate unit tests that call a function with the exact arguments that caused the assertion violation, and the VSCode extension makes using concrete playback easy.

> You can read more about concrete playback in our [documentation](https://model-checking.github.io/kani/debugging-verification-failures.html).

Reviewer: Not sure why we're talking about concrete playback here, with this level of detail.

Author: Edited this section to be shorter

#### Generate a counter-example unit test

Next, we’ll generate the unit test by clicking on the `Run Concrete Playback for stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original` link that appears through a blue link on the error banner.

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/generate-counter-example.gif" style="box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);" alt="generate-unit-test" />

> By simply clicking on a link, we have our counter example unit test pasted directly below the harness. This is what the unit test looks like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By simply clicking on the link, we'll have our counter-example unit test pasted directly below the harness.
This is what the unit test looks like:
```

```rust
#[test]
fn kani_concrete_playback_stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original() {
    let concrete_vals: Vec<Vec<u8>> = vec![
        // 4611686018427387904ul
        vec![0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 64],
        // 0ul
        vec![0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
        // 2ul
        vec![2, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
    ];
    kani::concrete_playback_run(concrete_vals, stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original);
}
```

> You can see in the gif above that the source is now annotated with two options on top of the generated unit test called  `Run Test (Kani) | Debug Test (Kani)` which allow you to run and debug the test just like any other Rust unit test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see in the GIF above that the source is now annotated with two options on top of the generated unit test, `Run Test (Kani)` and `Debug Test (Kani)`, which allow you to run and debug the test just like any other Rust unit test.
```

#### Run Kani-generated test

> Running the unit test using the Run Test (Kani) button, shows us what we’re expecting–that the current unit test is failing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running the unit test using the `Run Test (Kani)` button shows us what we were expecting -- that the unit test is failing.
```

This is because the unit test is using the counter-example to invoke the function `stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original`.

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/run-concrete-playback-test.png" alt="run-concrete-playback-test" />

### Debug Kani unit test

> In order to peek under the hood to find out the missing assumptions that lead to unexpected behavior, it is really important to look at the concrete counter examples for which our assertions fail.

Reviewer: Please ensure that all "counter example(s)" are rewritten to "counter-example(s)" or "counterexample(s)".

> By setting breakpoints and clicking the debug test (Kani) button, you are taken into the debugger which allows you to look at the specific values for which the assertion fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By setting breakpoints and clicking the `Debug Test (Kani)` button, you are taken into the debugger which allows you to inspect the specific values for which the assertion fails.
```

Reviewer: What makes debuggers interesting is that you can inspect the values at different points. They aren't necessarily the values for which the assertion fails, those may be computed (somehow) later.

We missed these cases in our unit and property-based tests.

We will now add these assumptions through `kani::assume` and re-run the verification in the extension.

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/verifying-success.gif" style="box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);" alt="verifying-success" />

And with that green check-mark, you can be assured that the harness has been verified!

## Wrapping up

You can use Kani natively in VS Code using the Kani VS Code extension, [available on the marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=model-checking.kani-vscode-extension) now.
We've seen how the VS Code extension can help you to iteratively verify properties of your code.
The extension can run your Kani harnesses; generate unit tests that demonstrate property violations; and verify the harnesses.

The Kani extension has more features which weren’t mentioned in the blog, that you can read about in our [user guide documentation](https://github.com/model-checking/kani-vscode-extension/blob/main/docs/user-guide.md).

> If you are running into issues with the Kani extension or have feature requests or suggestions, we’d [love to hear from you](https://github.com/model-checking/kani-vscode-extension/issues).

Reviewer: Let's ask users to try the extension first, then let's talk about what to do if they encounter issues.

Reviewer: Also, https://github.com/model-checking/kani-vscode-extension/issues/new/choose brings you to the "New issue" webpage.

---
layout: post
title:  "Run and debug Rust verification harnesses from VS Code"
---

Kani is a verification tool that can help you systematically test properties about your Rust code.
To learn more about Kani, check out the [Kani tutorial](https://model-checking.github.io/kani/kani-tutorial.html) and our [previous blog posts](https://model-checking.github.io/kani-verifier-blog/).

> In today’s blog post, we introduce the [Kani VS Code Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=model-checking.kani-vscode-extension), available on the VS Code marketplace.

Reviewer 3: Better: "We are delighted to introduce the [Kani VS Code Extension](link), which is now available on the VS Code marketplace."

The extension automatically detects all harnesses within the package, and allows users to run and debug them directly in VS Code.

> To allow a more comfortable verification experience, Kani is now usable from the VS Code user interface.

Reviewer 3: I'd switch these. I.e.

The extension offers a more comfortable experience using Kani via integration with the VS Code user interface.
It automatically detects the harnesses in your package and displays them in a <insert word for UI element here> which lets you conveniently run them with a click.

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/kani-demo.gif" style="box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);" alt="view-kani-demo" />

## A Simple Example

To show some of the features in the extension, we will work through a familiar example, the rectangle example that we introduced in our [first blog post](https://model-checking.github.io/kani-verifier-blog/2022/05/04/announcing-the-kani-rust-verifier-project.html).

```rust
#[derive(Debug, Copy, Clone)]
struct Rectangle {
    width: u64,
    height: u64,
}

impl Rectangle {
    fn can_hold(&self, other: &Rectangle) -> bool {
        self.width > other.width && self.height > other.height
    }

    fn stretch(&self, factor: u64) -> Option<Self> {
        let w = self.width.checked_mul(factor)?;
        let h = self.height.checked_mul(factor)?;
        Some(Rectangle { width: w, height: h })
    }
}
```

In order to verify properties about the rectangle, we wrote a verification harness.
The harness tried to verify that when the rectangle is stretched, it can hold another rectangle of its original size (dimensions).

> If verified succesfully, this means that for any given stretch factor and any height and width of the original rectangle, this property holds true.

Reviewer 3: I would not say "the harness tried to", this sounds as though it has agency. I would instead say something like "the harness states" or "postulates" or "tests".

```rust
#[kani::proof]
pub fn stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original() {
    let original = Rectangle { width: kani::any(), height: kani::any() };
    let factor = kani::any();
    if let Some(larger) = original.stretch(factor) {
        assert!(larger.can_hold(&original));
    }
}
```

> #### How Kani is used currently

Reviewer 3: I'd move this after the explanation of how the extension works and say something like "of course you can still use the manual bla bla bla".

The current way of interacting with Kani is through the command line.
Users invoke `cargo kani` and specify the harness they want to verify.
Kani produces text-based output that tells you whether your verification attempt has succeeded or failed.

```
$ cargo kani --harness stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original
# --snip--
Check 2: verification::stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original.assertion.1
         - Status: FAILURE
         - Description: "assertion failed: larger.can_hold(&original)"
         - Location: src/main.rs:36:13 in function verification::stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original
# --snip--
VERIFICATION:- FAILED
```

## Introducing the Kani VS Code Extension

The [Kani VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=model-checking.kani-vscode-extension) offers a hassle-free and seamless integration into Visual Studio Code, making it more convenient to write and debug harnesses.
As you write Kani harnesses, the extension detects them and conveniently displays them within your testing panel.
The extension offers detailed diagnostics, feedback about verification failures, error messages, and stack traces.

> This empowers our users to find bugs and verify their code quicker.

Reviewer 3: You're mixing perspective/audience here. Specifically in this sentence you say "our users" (which sounds as though you're addressing another Kani team member or a neutral third-party observer) and in the next one you say "you can install" (as though you are addressing a user). You should pick one of these perspectives and I would recommend addressing the reader as though they are the Kani user.

> You can install the extension from the [webpage](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=model-checking.kani-vscode-extension) on VS Code marketplace or by searching for `Kani` in the extensions tab of your VS Code window.

Reviewer 3: I'd move this whole paragraph up to the the top of this post and combine it with the introduction before the example. Once you've introduced the example you don't want to have any more such general statements you just want to stick with the "tutorial" portion, it's a better flow.

## Using the VS Code extension

### Verify Kani harnesses

With the extension, running Kani on a verification harness, is as simple as clicking a button.

> In the following sections, we’ll walk you through using the extension’s core features to debug and finally verify the rectangle example mentioned above.

Reviewer 3: I'd remove this paragraph or move it to the general introduction before the example. 

Also you can move the telling the reader that we'll walk through the features up when you introduce the example like so "let us explore / we will walk through using the extensions features with the following example we introduced in an earlier blog post ..."

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/run-debugger.gif" style="box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);" alt="run-debugger" />

In our case, we can see that for `original.height = 0` , the larger rectangle’s height or `larger.height` also stays 0, which shows that for that counterexample, the property `can_hold` does not hold.

### And finally, verify the harness with the right assumptions

Now that we know that for `original.width = 0`, our assertion fails, we can repeat the experiment with explicit assumptions.
The experiments should reveal that for all parameters, having a 0 value will cause the assertion to fail.
Additionally, there is a problem if `factor` is `1` because in this case `stretch` will return `Some(...)`, but the stretched rectangle will be the same size as the original.
We missed these cases in our unit and property-based tests.

We will now add these assumptions through `kani::assume` and re-run the verification in the extension.

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/verifying-success.gif" style="box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);" alt="verifying-success" />

> And with that green check mark, you can be assured that the harness has been verified!

Reviewer 3: I just want to say I quite liked this tutorial style walkthrough 👍  good job

## Wrapping up

> You can use Kani through VS Code using the Kani VS Code extension, [available on the marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=model-checking.kani-vscode-extension) now.

Reviewer 3: "With this new extension you can now iteratively verify your code directly in the VS Code UI."

Also the order of the features is awkward. Better:

"It lets you verify harnesses with a simple click, highlights property violations, lets you generate unit tests and debug them".

---
layout: post

> title:  "Run and debug Rust verification harnesses natively on VS Code"

Reviewer: Not sure about "natively", since Kani is being called through sub-processes. Do you have other ideas about the title? For example, ` The Kani VS Code Extension: Run and debug Rust verification harnesses from VS Code`

Author: I think `Introducing the Kani VSCode Extension` works as well.

Reviewer 4: VS Code though. I do like the subtitle... it contains more information when sharing through social media etc

---

Kani is a verification tool that can help you systematically test properties about your Rust code.
To learn more about Kani, check out the [Kani tutorial](https://model-checking.github.io/kani/kani-tutorial.html) and our [previous blog posts](https://model-checking.github.io/kani-verifier-blog/).

In today’s blog post, we introduce the [Kani VS Code Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=model-checking.kani-vscode-extension), available on the VS Code marketplace.
The extension automatically detects all harnesses within the package, and allows users to run and debug them directly in VS Code.

> To allow a more comfortable verification experience, Kani is now usable directly from the VS Code user interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow a more comfortable verification experience, Kani is now usable from the VS Code user interface.
```
(wanted to avoid repeating "directly" again)

If verified succesfully, this means that for any given stretch factor and any height and width of the original rectangle, this property holds true.

```rust
#[kani::proof]
pub fn stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original() {
    let original = Rectangle { width: kani::any(), height: kani::any() };
    let factor = kani::any();
    if let Some(larger) = original.stretch(factor) {
        assert!(larger.can_hold(&original));
    }
}
```

#### How Kani is used currently

The current way of interacting with Kani is through the command line.
Users invoke `cargo kani` and specify the harness they want to verify.
Kani produces text-based output that tells you whether your verification attempt has succeeded or failed.

```
$ cargo kani --harness stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original
# --snip--
Check 2: verification::stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original.assertion.1
         - Status: FAILURE
         - Description: "assertion failed: larger.can_hold(&original)"
         - Location: src/main.rs:36:13 in function verification::stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original
# --snip--
VERIFICATION:- FAILED
```

## Introducing the Kani VS Code Extension

> The Kani VS Code extension offers a hassle-free and seamless integration into Visual Studio Code, making it more convenient to write and debug harnesses.

Reviewer: Link to the main Visual Studio Code webpage?

As you write Kani harnesses, the extension detects them and conveniently displays them within your testing panel.
The extension offers detailed diagnostics, feedback about verification failures, error messages, and stack traces.
This empowers our users to find bugs and verify their code quicker.
You can install the extension from the [webpage](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=model-checking.kani-vscode-extension) on VS Code marketplace or by searching for `Kani` in the extensions tab of your VS Code window.

## Using the VS Code extension

> ### Verify Kani harnesses

Reviewer 4: Suggest you get rid of this heading? The text you have below fits nicely under "Using the VS Code extension", there's no need for an extra heading here. The text below "With the extension..." summarizes the next few `<h3>` headings nicely IMHO
```suggestion
```

Reviewer 4: In the next few comments I'll also suggest getting rid of `####` headings. They can all be at `###` level, it's clearer IMHO

> With the extension, running Kani on a harness to verify it, is as simple as clicking a button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the extension, running Kani on a verification harness is as simple as clicking a button.
```

> The following sections walk you through the first few actions you’ll need.
> We’ll walk you through using the extension’s core features to debug and finally verify the rectangle example mentioned above.

Reviewer: These two sentences can be joined as follows:
```suggestion
In the following sections, we’ll walk you through using the extension’s core features to debug and finally verify the rectangle example mentioned above.
```

> #### View Kani harnesses

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### View Kani harnesses
```

As soon as your Rust package is opened using the Kani extension in a VS Code instance, you should see the Kani harnesses loaded as regular unit tests in the Testing Panel on the [primary side bar](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/ux-guidelines/sidebars#primary-sidebar) of VS Code.
This is how the testing page looks like when you click on the panel.

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/view-kani-harnesses.png" alt="view-kani-harnesses" />

> #### Run Kani harnesses

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Run Kani harnesses
```

You can then run your harnesses using the tree view by clicking the play button beside the harness that was automatically picked up by the Kani Extension.

> Once you run the harness using the extension, you are shown a failure banner if verification failed (or a green check mark if it succeeded).

Reviewer: Both cases are equally important (i.e., the parentheses aren't appropriate). I'd consider swapping the order since you're going to discuss the "verification failed" case.
```suggestion
Once you run the harness using the extension, you are shown a green check mark if verification succeeded, or a failure banner if it failed.
```

In our example, as with the command line, we can see through visual markers such as the failure banner pop-up and the red failure marker, that verification failed.

You are then presented with two options:

1. [Generate the report for the harness](https://github.com/model-checking/kani-vscode-extension/blob/main/docs/user-guide.md#view-trace-report)
2. [Run concrete playback to generate unit tests](https://github.com/model-checking/kani-vscode-extension/blob/main/docs/user-guide.md#use-concrete-playback-to-debug-a-kani-harness).

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/run-kani-harness.gif" style="box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);" alt="run-kani-harness" />

Kani's [concrete playback](https://model-checking.github.io/kani-verifier-blog/2022/09/22/internship-projects-2022-concrete-playback.html) feature allows you to generate unit tests that call a function with the exact arguments that caused the assertion violation.

> The VSCode extension makes using concrete playback easy.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The VS Code extension makes using concrete playback easy.
```

You can read more about concrete playback in our [documentation](https://model-checking.github.io/kani/debugging-verification-failures.html).

> #### Generate a counterexample unit test

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Generate a counterexample unit test
```

Next, we’ll generate the unit test by clicking on the `Run Concrete Playback for stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original` link that appears through a blue link on the error banner.

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/generate-counter-example.gif" style="box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);" alt="generate-unit-test" />

> By simply clicking on a link, we have our counterexample unit test pasted directly below the harness.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By clicking on the link, we have our counterexample unit test pasted directly below the harness.
```

This is what the unit test looks like:

```rust
#[test]
fn kani_concrete_playback_stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original() {
    let concrete_vals: Vec<Vec<u8>> = vec![
        // 4611686018427387904ul
        vec![0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 64],
        // 0ul
        vec![0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
        // 2ul
        vec![2, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
    ];
    kani::concrete_playback_run(concrete_vals, stretched_rectangle_can_hold_original);
}
```

> You can see in the GIF above that the source is now annotated with two options on top of the generated unit test, `Run Test (Kani)` and `Debug Test (Kani)`, which allow you to run and debug the test just like any other Rust unit test.

Reviewer: Is "source" missing "code" after it?

> #### Run Kani-generated test

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Run Kani-generated test
```

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/run-concrete-playback-test.png" alt="run-concrete-playback-test" />

### Debug Kani unit test

In order to peek under the hood to find out the missing assumptions that lead to unexpected behavior, it is really important to look at the concrete counterexamples for which our assertions fail.
By setting breakpoints and clicking the `Debug Test (Kani)` button, you are taken into the debugger which allows you to inspect the specific values for which the assertion fails.

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/run-debugger.gif" style="box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);" alt="run-debugger" />

In our case, we can see that for `original.height = 0` , the larger rectangle’s height or `larger.height` also stays 0, which shows that for that counterexample, the property `can_hold` does not hold.

### And finally, verify the harness with the right assumptions

Now that we know that for `original.width = 0`, our assertion fails, we can repeat the experiment with explicit assumptions.

> The experiments should reveal that for all parameters, having a 0 value will cause the assertion to fail.

Reviewer: This sentence feels like a repetition of the previous one.

Author: I think I'd like to leave it as it is. Just to make the process of debugging as clear as possible.

Reviewer 3: That 0 should be `0` (or the `1` later a 1)

> Additionally, there is a problem if `factor` is `1` because in this case stretch will return `Some(...)` but the stretched rectangle will be the same size as the original.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, there is a problem if `factor` is `1` because in this case `stretch` will return `Some(...)`, but the stretched rectangle will be the same size as the original.
```

We missed these cases in our unit and property-based tests.

We will now add these assumptions through `kani::assume` and re-run the verification in the extension.

<img src="{{site.baseurl | prepend: site.url}}/assets/images/vs-code-images/verifying-success.gif" style="box-shadow: 0 2px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);" alt="verifying-success" />

> And with that green check-mark, you can be assured that the harness has been verified!

Reviewer: You wrote check mark separately before, which one is correct?

## Wrapping up

> You can use Kani natively in VS Code using the Kani VS Code extension, [available on the marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=model-checking.kani-vscode-extension) now.

Reviewer: Again, not sure about "natively". Can't we just say "through"?

> We've seen how the VS Code extension can help you to iteratively verify properties of your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post, we've seen how the VS Code extension can help you to iteratively verify properties of your code.
```

> The extension can run your Kani harnesses; generate unit tests that demonstrate property violations; and verify the harnesses.

Reviewer: Two problems in this sentence:
 1. Using ";" to separate here isn't appropriate since you're enumerating features (i.e., replace with ",")
 2. "Run" and "verify" are almost the same, don't you want to also say "debug the unit tests using a standard debugger" or a similar thing?

> The Kani extension has more features which weren’t mentioned in the blog, that you can read about in our [user guide documentation](https://github.com/model-checking/kani-vscode-extension/blob/main/docs/user-guide.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Kani extension has more features which weren’t mentioned in the blog, which you can read about in our [user guide documentation](https://github.com/model-checking/kani-vscode-extension/blob/main/docs/user-guide.md).
```
